[room ambience]
All right. here's the room
we're going to be in.
Can you sit in this chair?
And if I ask you a question
and my words are too big
and you don't understand
what I'm asking.
then just tell me that
you don't understand
and I'll ask it
a different way.
And if I ask a question and
you don't know the answer.
then it's best you say.
"I don't know."
and not make something up.
Okay?
What does it mean
to tell the truth?
Okay.
♪ low dramatic music ♪
♪
[Pat Kondelis]
How are you doing?
Good. how are you doing?
Good.
This wa-- is this water
for me right here?
That's for you.
I just-- I got back from rec.
I was in-- I was in
the rec yard.
-Yeah.
-That was-- it's hot outside.
Yeah. it is.
It's-it's about 100 or more.
♪ low dramatic music ♪
♪
♪ theme music ♪
♪ low dramatic music ♪
High school football in Texas
is probably. uh. behind.
uh. God and-and guns.
Well. I don't know--
right behind God. probably.
In the state of Texas.
there is no bigger
community-involved activity
than high school football.
Each community around each
high school football program
is invested in that
football team.
It brings a lot of recognition
and it brings a lot of pride
to your-- to your town.
The identity of a lot
of towns comes from the
success the football team has.
And Leander's one of
those school districts.
High school football L--
in Leander is huge.
It's-it's a huge deal.
I mean. it's like a religion.
[indistinct background chatter]
[David Anderson] We have a
stadium that seats
12.000 people.
Press box is about
60 yards long.
You have your band. your
dance teams. your cheerleaders
and. uh. big-time rivals.
[crowd cheering]
[Marlon Berduo] It's
Friday Night Lights.
You know. that's-that's
what it is.
Standing room only sometimes.
you know.
Uh. so it's impressive.
[Jonathan] You know. you can --
you can feel the vibration
in the stadium.
Everyone's going crazy.
It's-it's everything;
it brings people together.
It's just a team and
it's just a town.
Whether you're on the
wrong side of the tracks or
right side of the tracks.
whether you're white. black.
brown. orange. green.
money. no money. you know.
Baptist or Buddhist.
we all believe in
that same goal.
is on Friday nights for
48 minutes that we're trying
to represent our community.
our family and. you know.
whatever school you're at.
[crowd cheering]
[Clint] Greg came in as a
sophomore my very first year
as the head coach there.
And. uh. we played him
on the varsity.
and we played him on defense.
This is 5A football.
We're not talking about
1A or 2A football.
where pretty much
everybody gets to play.
This is 5A.
This is the top of the line in
Texas high school football.
And Greg was good enough to
play as a sophomore
in probably one of the toughest
districts in the state.
[John] Greg was a very.
uh. dynamic player.
Uh. not only was he really
strong but he was really fast.
[Marlon] He was one of the
best out there.
I mean. he was one of the
fastest. if not the fastest.
on the team.
[John] He was one of the
best football players
I've been around. uh. by far.
by speed. size. weight.
He was just a superior athlete.
[crowd cheering]
[Clint] He was a lot
more physical.
I'd probably say a lot more
defensive-minded.
didn't really mind
striking you.
I think one of the
hardest hits was against--
that I've seen in high school
football was against Rouse.
Number two came
off the right side.
Greg came off the right side
and hit. uh. the quarterback.
His intelligence level.
his physical-ness. his size--
those were all things that just
pointed that he was going to be
a really. really good football
player for-for Leander High
for his whole
high school career.
[crowd cheering]
We were always in the top 10.
We were always playing
big games every week.
You may not win every game
but there was one game
you had to win. and
that was Cedar Park
because we got a daily reminder
when we walked outside
that we saw Cedar Park
on the water tower
just a couple of
hundred yards away.
Leander and Cedar Park are-are
right next to each other.
Cedar Park is a school
in Leander ISD
but is a town in itself
in Williamson County.
[Shawn Dick] Williamson County
is a-a community just north
of the city of Austin. Texas.
We are a little bit more
of a rural community.
uh. although we're growing.
We're one of the
fastest-growing communities
in the. in the country.
I would say that a lot more.
uh. wholesome values
and-and they like to say
that it's more of a.
kind of a down-home attitude.
I think. in Williamson County.
a little more conservative--
uh. a lot more conservative.
to be quite honest with you.
It is known as kind of
a no-nonsense county.
And I think that a lot
of that conservatism
plays into the way. uh.
law enforcement handles cases
in Williamson County.
If you're going to do it. don't
do it in Williamson County.
[male reporter] One Central
Texas city is seeing a
dramatic downward crime trend.
That's Cedar Park.
So what that tells me is the
police in the community
are doing a really good job
of being proactive
in-in getting bad guys
off the street.
Our goal is for those bad guys
to learn to recognize the
city limit sign at Cedar Park.
Cedar Park is a. uh. dynamic
part of the Austin metroplex.
Uh. it's a. uh. community
of about 73.000 people.
It's a. um. fairly. uh.
affluent community.
very prosperous.
[David] We've been here
for 30 years now.
It's a place where our family.
our girls. have grown up.
A place where you feel safe.
A place where you have a
great school district.
It's a place we love.
♪ low dramatic music ♪
[Lindsay Armstrong] I think I
first heard about this story--
it was probably when
my mom texted it to me.
She. uh. she's all
about the news.
So I got a text message with.
uh. Greg Kelley's photo.
And it just said.
"Do you know this kid?"
And I was like. "Yeah. yeah.
I've heard about him.
Why?"
And she was like. "Oh. well.
he's all over the news."
In high school I knew of him.
but I knew of him
because of Gaebri.
And. you know. Gaebri was the
hot-shot Blue Belle that was.
you know. new and
up and coming.
And so-- and anyone in my high
school knew the Blue Belles.
You know. they were
the "it" girls.
They were who you wanted
to be involved with.
So anyone that was popular
within the Blue Belles
and was dating someone
was immediately like
popular within our high school.
I met Greg for the first time in
a math class in seventh grade.
started off friends and
then started dating.
And the rest is history.
He was one of the
football stars.
That was his focus.
He wanted to go be--
get a full-ride scholarship
to a college.
And he had that in mind so he.
you know. committed to it
and went for it.
And he was. yeah. he was
definitely considered like.
the football star.
[Jonathan] The plan was.
since middle school.
he embedded in his mind.
you know.
he-he wanted to go to college.
He didn't want my mom to.
uh. to have the burden
of paying for his
college tuition.
He took the means. you know.
two-a-days. you know.
working out. making sure that.
you know. he stayed. uh.
mentally focused. you know.
eating right.
He took all those steps
in order to do that.
Gregory received four offers
for scholarships.
so he did get a-an offer. for a
full ride. to Rice University.
Um. he also got a-an offer as
a full ride to Texas State
and also to UTSA.
Things were on the up and up.
That's for sure.
I don't believe they did.
you know.
And there's the story.
uh. you know.
It just-- he had a very.
very tough. uh. junior year.
[Tracey] Greg's father.
uh. suffered a stroke.
And. um. it was pretty severe
and so he needed to be
in a facility to take
care of him.
And Greg's mother was
recuperating from a brain tumor.
So finishing the year
where he's at.
we've done all this
work together.
We spent many a days
running 200s.
lifting weights.
sweat on the floor.
Blood. sweat and tears is what
most people like to call it.
So for him to finish
his high school career
where he started is--
was important.
He wanted to finish out
with his team
and that's when.
you know.
Shama said.
"I'll take him in."
Shama was a big booster
for the football team.
She was completely
behind Greg.
believes in Greg.
Her house was the hangout for
a lot of the high school kids.
Well. she has a son
that's about a year younger
than Greg. Johnathan.
And. uh. they both played
on the football team.
And then Shama just seemed
to be an open-arms to
any high school kid that
wants to come and hang out.
And Gaebri would even
hang out there.
I mean she would
be there a lot.
She was frien-- good friends
with Johnathan.
very good friends with
Johnathan.
Johnathan was one of my
best friends in high school.
Greg and Johnathan
were friends.
They were on football together.
[Greg] He was on JV.
At the time. I was on varsity.
We started becoming really good
friends. and I would come over.
And. uh. we just
pretty much hit it off.
[Greg] Shama. Johnathan's
mother. uh. knew the situation
in my family.
And she. uh. she
opened the door to me.
She asked. um.
"Why don't you stay here
until your family gets better?"
[Gaebri] Greg had two choices.
to move in with Johnathan
or another one of his friends.
Shama was all for it.
"Greg. move in with me.
We'll take care of you.
We'll feed you.
We'll bring you to school.
We'll give you a car. a phone.
totally. you know.
take care of you."
So I went to my parents
with it and. uh.
we all agreed to it.
And I started staying there.
♪ soft dramatic music ♪
The house just seemed
like a really good place
to live. you know.
just for the time being.
Shama and Ralph
would treat me great.
Shama was running an
in-home daycare.
Ralph had a lawn care service.
They were loving parents.
They would treat me
as one of their own.
She would pack snacks for
me and Johnathan and--
to go to school.
And she was a-a. a
loving mother figure.
[Clint] He was having
a rough semester.
And I know football was
a big thing for him
because that kind of got him
through both of his parents.
uh. being ill at the same time.
When I was living there. I was
so serious with athletics
that I wanted to
live in the gym.
So at 5:00 a.m..
in the gym.
I'd go to practice.
That's-- practice
would start at eight.
Go to school.
go to practice after school.
go back to the house.
eat dinner. watch a little TV.
go to sleep.
start all over again.
five days a week.
There's a lot of kids
I've coached that have
a lot of talent. and they're
not mature enough.
And that was one of the things
I always thought about Greg.
was how mature he
handled himself.
And so I never had
to worry about Greg.
At that time I had a mentality
where. um. I wanted to grow up.
I wanted to feel like an adult.
I wanted to have goals and
I wanted to have priorities.
I wanted to. uh. make
something for myself.
I committed to UTSA in the
beginning of June
at the McCarty's house.
I was wearing my UTSA shirt
and everything at the time.
and they took a picture
of me on the phone.
And the next thing you know.
within hours.
I'm all over the social media:
Gregory Kelley
committed to UTSA.
The momentum he had at
that point in time
is unlike most students
ever experience.
He's smart.
He's athletic.
He has opportunities
in front of him.
He had a bunch of upside.
My brother called me
right after a
football summer strength
conditioning camp.
I was walking out of the gym
and I got a missed call from
my brother. Marlon.
And. uh. and it was
a lot of them.
so I knew something
was going on.
I called him. said. "Hey. man.
you calling me?"
He says. "Hey. man. don't come
to Shama's if you're
thinking about coming here."
Shama is very frantic
and she tells me
there's a parent.
obviously at her daycare which
she ran from the house.
uh. accusing Greg of
sexually molesting
one of the kids there.
I'm like-- I thought
it was a joke.
I'm like. "Dude. stop
joking with me."
And he's like. "No. I'm
not kidding. man.
I w-w-- I'll try to straighten
this out. see what's going on."
And he pretty much
stopped me cold and said.
"No. no way.
They're lying.
Why would I do that to a kid?"
And that's exactly
what he said.
I don't know what's going on.
I mean. this accusation
is so serious that
how are you supposed to react?
I'm li-- I'm like--
I-I started like breaking down
and crying.
I said. "What?"
[Gaebri] Yeah. okay.
so I remember it
like almost like it
was yesterday.
I was in California and.
um. Greg had found out.
And the first person he
went to is my parents.
He didn't come to me because
he didn't know what to do.
[David] The first time I ever
heard about anything about this
was a shocking moment. because
I got a phone call first.
Greg said. "I need to
come talk to you."
He shows up.
It was Greg. it was Shama.
the daycare owner.
and then also Rosa.
And they walked in
and he told me.
he says. "Coach. I don't.
I don't know what to tell you
except this is happening.
I'm-I'm getting somebody saying
that I did something
I didn't do."
I quickly went on the defense.
trying to ask questions.
saying. "Greg.
is there something that
you can tell me?"
And I was looking him
in the eyes.
He said. "I have nothing--
nothing happened.
And now they're saying
they're going to charge me
for something that I didn't do."
Then they gave him the
advice to call me.
I was in California.
And he told me everything.
I told her-- I was like.
"You sitting down?" you know.
And. uh. she was like--
I was like. "You might. uh.
you might want to get by
yourself for this.
I have to tell you something."
And I explained everything
to her. uh. from the.
from the get-go.
I remember-- I still get
this feeling a lot
when I find out bad news.
It's like. I just
turn numb. like.
this can't be true.
and then going to:
well. it's okay.
Like. you didn't do it so we're
going to make this clear.
We'll find out who did it.
She was getting angry.
you know. at anybody
who would make an accusation
like that towards me.
[room ambience]
[interviewer] All right. here's
the room we're going to be in.
Can you sit in this chair?
And can you find the camera
that I told you about?
That's it.
It's 2:54 on July 23rd. 2013.
And today. it's very important
that we only tell real things.
Do you promise today
to tell real things?
Can you use your words?
Okay.
And I promise to tell you
real things too
if you have any questions.
Okay?
So. [bleep]. um.
tell me what you had to
come talk about today.
With Greg?
He's always putting his
pee-pee in your mouth?
Okay.
Um --
Oh. he has a bigger
pee-pee than you?
Oh.
Okay.
[Sean] So the outcry interview
is the actual basis
by which the investigation
really begins.
That's the interview in which
the child first goes on record
stating what had happened to
him and in the case where
they know. you know.
who did it to him.
And in this particular case.
both of those pi-pieces of
information were included. the
what happened and who did it.
Okay.
Just two times?
And tell me what Greg did.
He put his pee-pee
in your mouth?
What happens. uh.
in these cases is
after the outcry. uh.
statement is made. uh.
then the investigation. uh.
really begins in earnest.
That's where. uh. if there is
evidence to be collected.
the detective would go out
and collect that evidence.
If there's other interviews.
uh. to be had. uh.
that's when those
would take place.
[Greg] I chose Patricia
through. uh. Shama.
through. uh. McCartys because
Shama told me that
sh-she was a good lawyer.
She told me that. um.
"We're going to have
to turn you in. Greg.
Uh. we're going to
have to turn you--
turn you in to the County Jail.
We're going to get you out
the same day.
We don't want them coming
and putting you in handcuffs
in front of everybody.
So. uh. we'll just get this.
do this process done
and we'll continue fighting."
The next morning. we drove
to Williamson County
and. uh. I turned myself in.
They put me in handcuffs.
I spent 13 hours in Booking.
So. uh. I was completely
drained when I got--
when I. uh. came home
that night.
[Clint] I always talk
to our kids.
Uh. I talk to them about
there's three things
as a family:
I don't. I don't want you to
ever embarrass yourself.
your family
or this program.
because there's been
a lot of people
that have gone before you
to make this program
really. really good.
It's never going to have your
name in the front of-of the
Austin Statesman.
It's not going to
say your name.
It's going to say
"Leander High School
Football Player Arrested."
That makes us all look bad.
[Greg] With me being an
athlete for Leander
and being a college commit.
I knew this was going
to be front-page news.
[female reporter] Local high
school football player arrested
on a child sex abuse charge.
[male reporter] Leander is
still in shock tonight after
a high school student
there is arrested.
accused of sexually assaulting
a young child.
Obviously. everything
went crazy.
He was on TV.
He was on the newspaper.
And that's when all
of the circus started.
[male reporter] A star high
school football player is
making waves for what he's
accused of off the field.
[female reporter] Now. a
spokesperson with the
Leander School District
said they cannot comment
on any action they may take
due to privacy laws.
[male reporter] And with
football practice getting
underway tonight. it's
unclear if he's still
a member of the team
or even the school.
Greg was not allowed to go
back to Leander.
It was the se--
his senior year.
[Aldo] Once all these
allegations came forward.
he was essentially expelled.
He was put into more of
a probational facility.
They kicked me out of the
district and they put me
in the JJAEP. which is. uh.
where felons go to.
And it's military based.
and I was forced to go there
just to continue with
my education.
[male reporter] The arrest of
18-year-old Greg Kelley
is bringing up questions.
I know that he was living
in the home that. uh.
was also a daycare. uh.
business during the day.
Uh. so there was. uh.
regular contact or exposure
to where the kids were.
We had a press conference to
announce. first of all.
that. uh. an arrest had been
made because there was media.
uh. interest in this
particular. uh. case.
And we put out there that if
anybody else had children
that may have been exposed to
Mr. Kelley. uh. you know.
to contact us if there was
any. uh. the thought that
something may have happened
to their child.
Uh. and that's when a
second victim came forward.
♪ somber music ♪
[male reporter] A high school
football star is behind bars
for the second time.
Leander High School
senior Greg Kelley
is now accused of
sexual contact
with two different
four-year-olds.
[Bryan] It seemed like with a--
okay. well. one kid could
get it wrong.
But then you have
two kids saying
essentially the same things.
I know that that made
it seem more legitimate.
at least in my mind.
as a crime if you have
two people saying
the same thing.
[male reporter] This senior
is weighed down with
two felony charges of sexually
abusing preschool-age children
at a home daycare
in Cedar Park.
He had been staying there for
about a half a year until June.
The first complaint
came in mid-July.
An adult high school student
taking advantage of little kids.
When the second one comes.
I mean. it's human nature
to think. "Wow. so there may be
something that's going on here.
What-what is it?"
[Sean] There are people that
are dramatically impacted.
And in this particular case.
uh. you know.
I hope that everybody. uh.
you know. keeps their eye
on the fact that
the victims here
are two four-year-old children
that have to live with. uh.
whatever occurred for the
rest of their life.
Another-another kid.
So...
Super-aggravated sexual
assault of a child.
Um...
two counts of that.
It is worse than murder
because the least you can get
is 25 years without parole.
The most you can get
is 99 without parole.
And you can get any number
between that without parole.
It is only-- this is the only
charge where you can get
no parole because the kid
has to be a certain age.
So that's why they
upgrade it to that charge.
What a responsibility you
have when you believe
that your client is innocent.
And on top of that. you know
you're dealing with probably
one of the m-- with one of
the most emotional topics.
which is child sexual abuse.
And then there's this hammer
that the State has chosen
to use. um. which is the
super-aggravated sexual assault.
Which means. by God.
if we don't get it
and the jury doesn't
get it right.
it means potentially
a life sentence
for my 19-year-old client.
So the first time I heard
about the Greg Kelley case.
uh. you know. I was familiar
with Greg's lawyer.
I was familiar with
the prosecutors
involved in the case.
Uh. I also knew at the time
that the defense lawyer
seemed to believe that
Greg Kelley was innocent.
And I knew the prosecutors
believed he was guilty.
I feel like in Williamson
County. they do--
they do like you to know that
they are on top of the case.
They are very up front.
Many c-- many times they're
very up front about how
they relay information
to the media.
And. uh. and they're
not afraid to tell you
when they have their man.
And-and that's been a few cases
over the last few years
that have sparked a-a little
controversy i-in the way
it's b-- it was handled.
The first controversy
I think that was really
widespread and publicly known
was this is the county
that the Michael Morton case
originated out of.
[Bryan] The Michael Morton
case. uh. was probably the
biggest in-in my time here.
That was the case that involved
a man being sent to prison
for 25 years for a crime he
ultimately didn't commit.
the murder of his wife.
[female reporter]
Christine Morton was found
beaten to death in her
Round Rock home.
In February. 1987. her husband
Michael was convicted
of the crime and sentenced
to life in prison.
I didn't do this.
[male] I'm sorry. what?
I did not do this.
Ken Anderson was the
District Attorney.
um. that handled the
Michael Morton case.
And then John Bradley took
over for Ken Anderson.
And then John Bradley was the
prosecutor that was. um.
at least publicly questioned
about how long he waited
to test DNA evidence in the
Michael Morton case.
[female reporter] We asked
Bradley about his
strong opposition to
testing a bandanna
found near the crime scene.
If I got a promise
from Michael Morton
that he would accept
criminal responsibility
for killing his wife.
should the bandanna exclude
any other mystery killer.
you know what?
I would consider doing that.
He just assumed that
Michael Morton was guilty
based on what he had learned
from his predecessor.
And his position was not to
test the DNA for a long time
until the Court finally
made-made them.
The District Attorney at
the time had information
that would have served
Michael Morton
that was not introduced.
And ultimately it would have
exonerated him at the time.
[female reporter] ...as the
District Attorney. Bradley.
pushed to prevent DNA testing
of evidence that would
eventually free Morton.
And in 2013. another man named
Mark Norwood was found guilty
of Christine Morton's murder.
Michael spent 25 years
in prison
for a crime that
he did not commit.
What people were upset about
is they had put their
faith and trust in
John Bradley
to do the right thing.
And a lot of people were
concerned that maybe he
hadn't done the right thing
by withholding. uh.
Michael Morton's ability
to test DNA.
And I-I do believe that a lot
of people were disappointed.
They put their faith in
Williamson County's
justice system.
And so I know Miss Duty
made that a central part
of her campaign.
[Jana Duty TV ad] Mr. Bradley
fought tooth and nail against
testing some very critical
evidence in that case.
And by withholding evidence.
refusing to do DNA testing.
a serial killer was allowed to
walk the streets for 25 years.
My motivation is to
protect our families
and to protect our tax dollars.
I'm proud to say that we
live in a safe county.
I'd like to think that I had
something to do with that.
[Bryan] It appeared like there
was a changing of the guard.
There was a changing of
attitude. it felt like.
Enough voices were being heard.
and eventually it got to the
point on Election Day where.
uh. votes were cast
and changes were made.
Change was the--
was the key word.
And she was the person
to bring that change.
There needs to be fairness
in the system. uh.
so that what happened in
the Michael Morton case
doesn't happen again.
I mean that's-that's
what it comes down to.
[Shawn] I think Williamson
County residents
were embarrassed.
They were embarrassed by
the-the perception that-that
not only the Williamson County
community had but. y-you know.
nationally I think Williamson
County got people's attention.
And. they no longer wanted to
be the focus of bad things.
They wanted to be the focus
of-of positive developments.
[Bob Cole] From the Williamson
County District Attorney's
Office. Geoffrey Puryear:
Greg Kelley's contact with
these young children.
four years old--
you're sure beyond.
uh. any shadow of a doubt.
you've got the right guy.
he's 100% guilty as sin?
[Geoffrey Puryear] What I can
tell you and your listeners is.
uh. that I felt extremely
comfortable proceeding
on the charges we did against
Mr. Kelley and-and felt
deep down in my heart that
he was absolutely guilty
of every criminal offense
we charged him with.
[Bob] Did you guys i-initially
offer him a plea bargain in--
uh. uh. instead of
even going to trial?
[Geoffrey] Yes. we did.
Yeah. I got offered a
plea bargain
days before my-my trial:
10 years probation.
lifetime sex offender
registration.
a certain amount of fines.
a certain amount
of time in jail.
I said no.
They came back with
five years probation.
lifetime sex offender
registration.
And my mom was breaking.
My mom said. uh.
"Mijo. think about it."
And when you see your
mother breaking.
it's breaking you.
I'm trying to stand firm. and
I'm actually thinking about it.
That night I called Gaebri.
And I was like.
"You cannot do it."
For him to physically say like.
"I'm a sex offender"?
No.
Absolutely not.
I don't think he could even--
I don't even think he could
find it in him to
ever say that.
She pretty much kicked
my butt in shape.
So she reminded me
just to keep fighting.
♪ dramatic music builds ♪
♪
I followed the
Greg Kelley case.
and I noticed that it was
getting a lot of publicity.
I noticed that there
were dozens of people
lined in the hallway
every day for that trial.
[Greg] When I first walked
in that courtroom.
I was nervous.
And I'm-- I don't know
what to expect.
I'm just hoping that the
truth will come out...
the jury will see it
for what it is.
I would go home.
[juror] The very first time I
saw Greg Kelley.
I was sitting in the hallway
of the Courthouse
before they were starting
the proceedings.
And I stood up and I saw
a guy walking.
nice. clean-cut. suit.
I thought. aw man. he must
be one of the lawyers.
Little did I know that
he was the one that
was being accused.
He didn't look like
anybody that would
probably ever do that.
Well...
Jeffrey Dahmer didn't look
like anybody [laughs]--
like somebody that would do
what he was doing.
[male reporter] Greg Kelley's
attorney said the star athlete
with so much support is only
sitting here accused of
sexually assaulting children
because of the lies of adults.
False accusations are
created by adults...
and carried by children.
[juror] "Greg put his
pee-pee in my mouth."
♪ somber music ♪
I remember that.
Wh-what's going
through my head is
whoever did that
is pretty sick.
[Sunday Austin] Essentially
both children. um.
particularly the first one.
out of nowhere very innocently
made a statement to his mother
detailing essentially
oral sex that had occurred
between him and Mr. Kelley.
And at the time. uh.
both kids were actually
barely four years old.
[male reporter] The mother
of an alleged victim.
who will not be identified.
she told the jury about
the day her son.
using words a
four-year-old would use.
said Greg Kelley had him
perform oral sex.
You know. you don't expect
your four-year-old
to say something
like that to you.
[attorney] So you asked him
how many times it happened.
And what did he say?
[Sunday] The parents who had
this first child discussed it
amongst themselves. um.
consulted a friend that was
a-a police officer. ultimately
decided they need to.
they need to report
it to the police.
You said earlier that it
happened another time?
And then did it happen
in another room
or in the same room
or something else?
In two rooms.
What was the other room?
The couch room?
Oh. where sometimes
you sleep?
Was anyone else in the
room when that happened?
Just Greg and you?
Yeah.
Has something like this ever
happened with someone else?
Just Greg.
[male reporter] Kelley's guilt
or innocence could come down
to those children. who will
tell the jury in their
own words what happened.
And the children are
expected to testify.
but it will be through
close-circuit television
to help them feel
more comfortable.
[female reporter] Five-year-old
gives his testimony.
holding a stuffed penguin.
Prosecutors questioned the
alleged sexual assault victim.
but he denies Greg Kelley
did anything to him.
[female] Did Greg ever have
you touch him in any way?
Did you ever touch Greg?
Is-- what's your answer?
The kid changed his story
and like there's--
something's going on.
And I think it was even clearer
and just more like
a breath of fresh air whenever
that second kid dropped
his accusations and he
100% recanted everything.
When the second kid recanted or
took back what they had said.
and I thought. man. I just
don't see how a jury
can convict on this
little evidence.
[Aldo] Everything was going
in the right direction.
and it was almost like that
eleventh hour.
like that prosecution team
needed to bring
the silver bullet or one
last blow just to try to.
um. completely change
directions.
I don't know exactly when
I first met Greg Kelley.
Um. he was a member of our gym.
He was a great guy.
He would come in.
uh. really athletic.
He looked-- you know. probably
one of the stronger guys
in the gym.
Yeah. during that time I-I got
to know him pretty well.
um. as far as. you know.
members go.
I remember specifically
I took a phone call.
a work phone call. and I kind
of walked through the hallway
towards the entrance.
Well. that's when
the gym owner--
um. where they escort him in.
He had an-- a complete escort.
He has law officers
that escort him in
and escort him out.
When that guy walked in.
it was weird because
he got up there
and I'm asking myself:
what is this guy doing here?
Greg would come
in pretty often.
probably at least
five days a week.
Uh. conversations with
Greg were. you know.
just strictly small talk.
A lot of times they did
involve. you know.
him talking about his military
service and-and he s--
you know. that he was in the
Marine Corps and-and. you know.
his deployment to-to
Afghanistan.
Well. I-I was in the Air Force.
I served from January. 2000
through October. 2005.
Yeah.
That was. that was common
ground with us.
is because I knew him as
another service member.
It is a little bit more
of a bond when you.
when you hear that from
somebody and-and you can talk
about experiences downrange
and-and where you've been.
You know. I-I had no doubts
that he was
in the Marine Corps.
I didn't doubt it just because
he was so convincing.
And t-- come to find out he was
a high school football player.
you know. and-and had
never gone. you know.
anywhere beyond that.
So right then I just--
you know. I felt like
this guy is--
I-I don't-- I don't know
who he was.
He's-he's a liar.
I was pretty upset for-for
being lied to.
It's just. you don't--
people shouldn't lie
about military service.
[female reporter] Forbes told
the jury he wouldn't believe
anything Kelley said.
I still feel that way
because-because what I know
of Greg is what I know of Greg.
Um. and-and-and everything
that I know pretty much
became a lie.
As far as if-if I saw
him today. I'd--
you know. I wouldn't have
an opinion of his-his
character overall but
I would just know that
I-I wouldn't trust anything
that he says.
You know. I was asking myself:
where-where did that come from?
And I told my attorney.
I said. "Man. this is
complete BS."
She said to me that this
is completely irrelevant.
We don't have to
worry about this.
I don't believe that my
brother ever told this
gym owner that he was a Marine.
Now. the gym owner might
have gotten him confused
with a Marine because at
the correctional school.
they do have uniforms.
And those uniforms resemble
what a service member
would wear. somebody from
the Army or the Marines
or any of those branches.
[Greg] I don't --
No.
I never told him that.
I never-- I've never
even said--
I've never even said
that to anybody before.
That-that is completely false.
If Greg tells anybody
that-that I'm a liar
and that I made this up. then.
yeah. I just--
I would just really lose any--
he'd lose any credibility
at all with me.
A-and I wish. I wish
anybody that he told that to
would come talk to me.
because I don't.
I don't lie about
anything like that.
There's no reason for me to.
[female reporter] Both
prosecutors and the Defense
left the jury with
some strong words
and a lot to think about.
You heard from a lot
of people yesterday
that the Defendant is. uh.
a dedicated football player.
a devoted boyfriend. uh.
you know. safe around kids.
He is who he needs to be
in front of people.
But if you look at the law
and you look at the evidence.
you're going to
find him guilty.
And that's the only proper
verdict in this case. folks.
I'm not saying that I
believe those parents
concocted this story and said.
"We've got to get Greg."
because the truth is.
I don't know what we've got.
All I know is we've got
a lot of issues.
Now. we will continue to
stand by into the night
for a verdict.
It could come down at any time.
Kelley could face 25 years
to life in prison.
since the alleged victim is
younger than six years old.
[juror] When we go in there.
they automatically want us
to come to a vote.
After we deliberated the closing
arguments. yeah. the vote was.
to the best of my c--
recollection was six to six.
Some of the jurors wanted to:
"Well. we want to hear
this testimony again."
Um. we started discussing
a little bit more.
It's nine to three.
Then it's ten to two.
And then it's eleven to one.
It was late.
We'd been there all day.
Um. they said. "Well. we're
going to let you go back
in the jury room.
You can call your loved ones
or whatever and have them
bring you a change of clothes.
toiletries or whatever.
because we're going to
put you in a hotel room.
You're not going anywhere.
Unanimous...
or you don't go home."
[male juror] We. the jury. find
the Defendant. Gregory Kelley.
guilty of the offense
of super-aggravated
sexual assault.
♪ somber music ♪
[Greg] I put my head down.
I released a huge sigh.
almost like a cry.
And at that moment.
I broke down.
I remember him putting
his head down.
shaking his head. and basically
saying. "I didn't do it.
I didn't do it."
[female reporter] A jury found
Greg Kelley guilty on
two counts of super-aggravated
sexual assault.
But a jury found him not guilty
of the one count of
indecency with another child.
Kelley's family and friends
have stood by his side
since the trial began.
They were in the courtroom
when the verdict was read.
and as you can see many
of them were sobbing
when they heard the decision.
[Gaebri] The first cry I heard
I remember was Shama.
Because she was just
screaming. loud. loud. loud.
And I remember like literally
feeling like I lost my hearing
and everything was numb.
It was-- well. I could
easily name that as
one of the worst days ever.
♪ dramatic music ♪
♪ dramatic music builds ♪
[Patricia] The jury had said
guilty in regard to the
two counts of super-aggravated
sexual assault.
So the only issue remaining
was what would the jury do
as far as punishment
and understanding that a
super-aggravated sexual assault
carries with it a minimum
25-year sentence
with a maximum of life.
And. there's no parole.
So. the scary part is
will they get it right
as far as punishment
is concerned?
And right by definition for me.
would have to be the minimum.
but you don't know.
[Greg] The next day.
they came and got me
and. uh. took me to my
sentencing hearing...
took me to a room
with my family
before I went to court.
The attorney walked in...
told me that she
talked to the judge.
that the judge was willing
to give me the bare minimum
of 25 years if I waived
my right to appeal.
She said. "This is a decision
that you have to make."
There were two bailiffs
and. uh. they were standing
back there and they told us
we have five minutes.
My hands were already
tied behind my back.
I'm literally in cuffs.
What do you do?
Do you want to go home at 44?
You know?
When I heard that. I looked at
my brothers and I asked them.
I said. "I-I want to
ask you a question.
What do you want me to do?
I don't know what to do.
I don't want to make
decisions anymore."
You know?
Um...
and I gave them the power
to-to. uh. choose for me.
And they all chose.
uh. I go home at 44.
Our attorney never
explained to us if he was
going to be found guilty. um.
the-the implications or the
options that we would have.
Um. no. she never did that.
That was. like I said. it was
decided within three minutes
before he was taken away.
The agreement is 25 years.
uh. Count One.
25 years. Count Two.
I went in the courtroom
and saw all my supporters.
smiled at them for
the last time...
♪ somber music ♪
signed a paper
and off I go.
This was a very fair trial.
This was a very fair process.
These cases are-are very tough.
You know. to-to try a case with
two four-year-old victims
is-is difficult.
Um. but I think this
case is proof that-
that they can be won.
It's good that we can close
the chapter on this case.
move on. and-and start
addressing the needs
of other people that need
our help in this community.
♪ somber music ♪
♪
[male reporter] He was a star
high school football player
when he committed the crime.
When he's free. he'll be
44 years old.
Greg Kelley will spend
25 years in prison after
his conviction for sexually
assaulting a young boy.
The people that
thought he did it
were completely on board with
the fact that he was guilty.
They wanted him to fry.
They wanted him to
go pay the price.
The very vast majority
of the people
support these little boys.
[Bryan] If he was convicted
of-of stealing a-a-a t-shirt
from Target. that's a crime.
But this is something that
really affected people.
It's the greatest fear
for a parent.
to have your kid in a daycare
be taken advantage of
or molested by someone
without you having
the power to do
anything about it.
So the crime itself
is-is just horrible.
So the-the divide was clear.
There weren't many people
on the fence with this one.
♪ somber music ♪
When I'd heard that
the child had come out
and outcried to his mom.
I was. I was like:
that's what I believe.
just the initial things
that he said. to me.
And that is probably personally
because I was a victim.
and it kind of reminded me
on how I told my mom.
I just think that their initial
"this is what happened"--
that's where I'm-I'm sticking.
♪ somber music ♪
[Douglas Kelley] The next day.
we were just in disbelief.
And we were-- the whole
family was kind of shocked.
And. uh. I get a phone call
and he goes.
"I'm Jake Brydon.
Uh. I want you-- I want you
to listen very carefully.
I've been staying in-in very
close touch with what's
going on and I want to
help you and your family
get your brother out of.
uh. out of this mess."
I was in disbelief.
I was like: who is this guy?
He-- boom. boom. boom.
I heard about Greg Kelley. um.
shortly after moving
back to Austin.
I was watching the evening news
and saw a clip about
the trial that was going on.
And a couple of things stuck
out to me at that time.
And so I just kind of
paid attention to it
but. like anybody else.
I wasn't involved
and just turned it off
and went to sleep.
I woke up the next day and
a buddy of mine called me
and said. "Did you hear?
Greg Kelley was found guilty."
And I said. "What is the deal
with this Greg Kelley kid
and what do you
know about it?"
Then he said something to me
that really got my attention.
He said. "You know.
this trial was a sham.
but there's nothing
we can do about it."
And when he said that to me.
I said. "Well. hang on a second.
Maybe there is."
If our justice system makes
mistakes like this
and we don't have the ability
to make that right.
that scares the hell out of me
because that could have been me.
That could have my brother.
That could have been
any of us. right?
And so I wanted to just
first of all figure out:
if-if this was a mistake.
what can we. the people.
do to hold our justice system
accountable?
I let them all know that night:
"Hey. I'm going to
s-start investigating this.
And if at any point I feel
like the County made the
right decision. guys. I'm
going to go from being
your best friend to your worst
enemy because I'm going to
shut this thing down real quick.
and I'm going to make my--
you know. I'm going to
get out of this."
Right?
New at 10 tonight.
verdict backlash.
Supporters of Greg Kelley
are rallying.
saying the former football
star is innocent.
[female reporter] More than
200 people gathered
at Leander High School to show
they still support Greg Kelley.
despite his conviction
for sexually assaulting
a four-year-old boy at
an in-home daycare.
[female reporter] There is
no chance of appeal here.
but that's not stopping
them from trying.
There's been an injustice here.
This is wrong.
This should have never
seen a courtroom.
[Bryan] The story from that
point became the people
that were in his corner.
We never forgot about the
victims in the press.
Obviously. the young boys are
the main focus of our coverage.
Uh. there was a
crime committed
according to this
four-year-old boy.
But following the conviction.
it became a story of
the steadfast support
this young man got
from his girlfriend.
from his friends.
from perfect strangers
that thought:
this case doesn't seem right.
[crowd chanting]
Justice for Greg.
I think I would say
I was shocked
when I realized that there were
supporters for Greg Kelley.
You know. it's always usually
people sticking up for the.
um. abused and not the abuser.
You assume that the family
will stick up for him
and you assume his
close friends will
and you assume people
that knew him would.
But it was when people that
didn't know him at all
started saying that for him.
complete strangers that have
never even heard about him. you
know. hopped on this bandwagon
and got heavily involved
in his case
that was really shocking to me.
We've stood by his innocence
the whole time
and we still believe that
he's innocent.
He has a lot of faith.
He has a lot of heart.
And. uh. he definitely
deserves justice.
You know. in the 35 years
that I've been doing this.
I've never seen anything
like it. a person. uh.
convicted of child molestation.
to get the kind of
blind support that he's gotten.
because. you know.
to hear people from the. uh.
the group that supports him.
uh. there's a common theme:
I don't know Greg. but I know
he didn't do this.
No.
I've not met--
I've not met Greg.
If it can happen to her son.
it can happen to your son.
it could happen to your son.
it could happen to me.
So the people that have
caused this to happen
for political gain.
we're going to take
that political gain.
We have to get angry. though.
Well. hell. now I'm.
I'm committed. right?
And-- but at this point.
I still don't know
if Greg did it or not.
And I have no interest
in fighting for a
convicted pedophile
that is a pedophile.
No. I didn't touch any kids.
Ever.
Mr. Kelley has lied about
several things.
The-the child was clear
about something having
happened to him.
The child was. uh. clear
that it was sexual. uh.
in nature and described things
that a four-year-old child
just shouldn't and
wouldn't know
absent the act actually
taking place.
And the child said
who did those things.
Nothing at all.
There's nothing that could
be misinterpreted.
It's a crime that. um. not
only was he accused of twice
but a crime that is extremely.
uh. aggressive.
extremely horrific. that any
normal person would have
been accused of would
be almost appalled.
You're almost. um. in a sense
insulted that someone would
accuse you of that because
it is just so awful.
And he just kind of took it
with. "Eh. you know.
it wasn't me.
Eh. we'll see how it goes."
And to me that was.
that was very strange.
That immediately
struck me as odd.
Nothing.
Never alone with them. never
touched them. anything.
Nothing.
I-I think Greg Kelley is guilty.
I'm completely innocent
of these accusations.
I picked up the phone and
I called Gaebri Anderson
and I said. "Gaebri. is there
any chance that he did this?
If there's anything there.
you need to tell me
because we're going to find it.
It's going to come out.
The truth always comes out."
"No. I swear. he couldn't
have done it."
What does it mean
to tell the truth?
[Jake] There's going to
continue to be revelations
and-and all of those point
towards the fact that
somebody else probably
did this.
It may not be as it appears.
They got it wrong.
♪ dramatic music ♪
♪